If you stumbled across a vintage polaroid
camera at a yard sale, and happened to take
some pictures of your friends, only to realize
that it was a haunted camera with a ghost
in it that comes and kills whoever you took
a picture of, what could you do?
In this video on Nerd Explains..
I’ll tell you, how to beat the ghost, in,
Polaroid.
We’ll follow the characters, see if they
could’ve made better decisions, and ultimately
figure out if we can beat the polaroid monster.
For some reason, a teenage girl and her friend
decided to go through their deceased mom’s
old stuff in her creepy house with no lights
on.
They find her mom’s old polaroid camera
and decide to snap a risque picture for a
boy.
* (Only he can have a copy of).
He can take a picture of the polaroid, just
saying.
* I know this isn’t a Star Wars ringtone,
but damn if that didn’t remind me of the
recon droid.
The friend has to jet, and the girl decides
to stay in the creepy dark house at night
by herself.
* What high school girl would do that?
I’d have left the house with my friend and
come back the next morning.
After admiring her own model shot, she heads
downstairs to find that Linda left the front
door open.
* How inconsiderate.
But then again, it’s a creepy old house,
so we might not be as alone as we think.
Call me paranoid, but I think it’s reasonable
to get a little nervous if you find out the
front door of your house is ajar at night.
I came home once and my dog started barking
at my dark bedroom, I went and got my gun
and tactically cleared the room and closets
using special forces tactics I saw on Youtube.
You gotta slice the pie, leave a comment if
you know what i’m talking about.
She then hears the polaroid camera charge
up upstairs, and goes to check it out.
* I don’t know much about polaroid cameras,
but i’m pretty sure they don’t charge
up on their own randomly.
To randomly and inappropriately use a banana
sundae analogy, if the front door being open
is the split banana, this is three scoops
of get the fuck out of the house ice cream.
She finds the polaroid of her model shot on
the bed where she left it.
Except now that the picture has developed,
we can see a silhouette of a person behind
her.
* Maybe it was a shadow from a lamp or something,
right guys?
Either way, this is going to be the whipped
cream.
The electricity in the rackety ass house buzzes
and flickers, shutting off all the lights
in the house, as if it wasn’t dark enough.
* This is the fudge drizzle.
Seriously though, at this point i’d be out
the fucking window in that room.
Whatever you do, please do not go wandering
the house to check it out.
Sigh.
She goes to wander the house in order to see
what’s going on, asking, “is anybody there.”
* Just FYI.
If you find yourself wandering a dark, creepy,
empty house, asking, is anybody there.
There’s about 95% chance you’re about
to die in the next 60 seconds.
Her heart rate is probably jacked, she has
to be feeling incredibly vulnerable as she
steps on the creaking floor boards.
She turns around to go downstairs, and the
ball that she tossed across the room in the
beginning of the movie, falls from the attic
space and bounces over to her.
* This is the nuts sprinkled on the chocolate
drizzle.
This is like the 5th red flag, you should
be sprinting out the door.
But not this girl.
She goes to pick it up.
And scared shitless, asks, “Linda?
Is that you?
Before she climbs the ladder into the attic
where the ball fell from.
* Can she make any more mistakes, I feel like
i’m losing my mind at how stupid this girl
is.
Who on planet Earth would do what she is doing.
The Grudge came out in 2004, instilling an
unhealthy level of fear of attics that should
have prevented this.
Once she makes it into the attic, the ladder
randomly falls to the ground without her touching
it.
From the corner of the attic, behind some
plastic tarp, she distinctly hears the horrifying
sound of something or someone wheezing.
What does she do, goes to check it out of
course.
* This teenage girl is seemingly impervious
to fear and proper decision making skills.
This is the cherry on top of the sundae.
Can you guess what’s going to happen once
she pulls the tarp back?
Yep, the wheezing polaroid ghost monster grabs
her and kills her.
* This girl did make a metric fuck ton of
horrible decisions, but as we will come to
find out, there really wasn’t much she could
have done.
As usual, the first person to encounter the
apocalypse, villain, monster, or whatever
is probably toast.
They just don’t know what they’re dealing
with.
The monster has the element of surprise.
Even if she did get away, she’d have most
likely been killed later that night as the
monster followed her.
Flash over to a new protagonist named Bird,
and she’s getting her picture taken at school.
* Thankfully not by a polaroid.
“Look, it's a scarf girl.”
Sick burn.
She works at an antique shop, where the shopkeeper's
nephew picked up an SX-70 vintage polaroid
camera from a yard sale.
A yard sale, from the house where a young
girl was murdered.
She takes his picture with it to test it out.
But before the picture develops he tries to
kiss her so she bolts.
When she gets home, she tries to take a picture
of her dog with the SX-70, her dog starts
to freak out and whimper at the sight of the
camera.
Before she can snap the picture, her friend
interrupts her.
* Phew.
Thought the dog was about to get it.
Later on, when she’s going to a party she
pulls out the picture of her coworker.
It’s developed now.
There’s a silhouette of a person.
* This is the first time Bird see’s something
odd, but it could just be a smudge or old
film, so there’s nothing to make us alarmed.
Back at the antique shop, Tyler is still there,
testing and pricing old shit.
He pulls out the Kodak Carousel, but instead
of it being a time machine to a place he knew
he was loved, it’s an opening from hell
that brings him death.
As he clicks the carousel back and forth,
the silhouette appears.
He grabs a hammer and pulls the screen down,
but nothing is there.
As he turns around, a wheezing person underneath
the screen stands up and attacks him.
* Like our original protagonist, there was
really nothing Tyler could have done to prevent
his death.
Sorry Tyler.
Back at the costume party, Bird picks a card
from a sexy fortune teller.
It’s a card of Death.
Foreshadowing..
Her friends try to take a group picture, but
Bird says, wait no, let me take it with my
polaroid camera.
Bird snaps the picture of all four of her
friends.
As the flash goes off, she immediately notices
a strikingly similar shadow to the one she
saw in the polaroid of Tyler.
She checks out the developing picture, and,
despite the shadow in the camera flash, there’s
no shadowy figure in this picture.
Avery shows up and takes a selfie with the
same camera, just before the police show up.
They aren’t there to break up the party
though.
At the police station, Bird finds out that
Tyler was murdered that night.
While she’s grieving, she picks up the polaroid
that she took of Tyler.
This time, the shadow in it is gone.
Weird.
She compares it to the picture of Avery and
the group photo.
There’s still no shadow in the group photo.
But in Avery’s, it clearly looks like the
shape of a person.
* We know for a fact that nothing was standing
behind her, nothing should have cast that
shadow.
Before, it seemed like it could’ve been
an issue with the camera or film that is causing
weird marks.
But Avery’s picture is really hard to misconstrue
as a random smudge.
* The shadow in Tyler’s picture disappearing
is odd as well.
* What is it with these dark ass houses, does
electricity cost a fortune there or something?
And what is it with these teenagers that live
in creepy old houses by themselves.
Seriously, this is like a 4 story victorian
mansion.
Either way, Avery has about as much wits as
the first girl, and gets her head torqued
by the phantom.
The morning after the party, Bird gets a call
from her friend.
She finds out that Avery is dead.
They think she died after falling down the
stairs by accident.
Bird knows something is very wrong, and these
deaths might be connected to the shadowy figure
that’s appearing and disappearing in the
polaroids.
She goes to check Avery’s picture.
The creepy figure is gone.
* These pictures are all completely developed,
nothing should be changing in them.
A mysterious shadowy figure moving between
pictures is not normal.
The thing appears in the group photo next.
It seems to be killing in the order of the
pictures taken, and after it finishes killing
whoever’s in that picture, it moves to whoever’s
in the next most recent picture.
* I mean sure, a haunted camera killing people
seems dumb and far-fetched, but these deaths
and the pictures are way to correlated for
us to just pass it off as nothing.
* Especially considering that two of our friends
were found dead on the same day, the day we
got the camera, and they happened to have
their picture taken by this camera.
* At this point, I would lock that camera
up somewhere nobody else could find or use
it, and separate the camera from the film.
I’d also put some tape over the lens.
Numerous times in the movie, the friends just
leave the camera on the table.
It’s magically charged up before, what’s
to say it wouldn’t take a picture by itself.
If the camera was pointed at someone random,
they’d be marked for death.
Doing this wouldn’t stop the monster or
save their lives, but it would prevent any
more people from getting killed.
* I wouldn’t destroy the camera right away,
because we did take a picture of our friends.
They are still potentially in danger.
We don’t know if destroying the camera would
save them.
The camera might hold the key to stopping
whatever’s going on.
Well, despite what I just said.
Bird throws the camera at the wall, hoping
to break it I guess.
Some type of shockwave pulses out when the
camera hits the wall.
* That’s… not normal at all.
This camera, ain’t a normal camera, that’s
for sure.
* Considering what’s been happening, I’d
be tempted to take the camera to some scientists
to study what the fuck is emitted a shockwave
from it, and how both people that had their
picture died in the same day.
Surely it’d be easy to prove that the camera
was haunted, I mean all you need to do to
prove it is throw the camera against the wall
again.
Bird goes to school and her friend gives her
the inside scoop on Avery’s death.
Apparently, they found her with her head completely
turned backwards, exorcist style.
* Now I know the police don’t have much
to go off of here, which is why they ruled
it as a possible accident.
But heads can’t physically turn around 180
degrees when falling down the stairs.
A broken neck, sure, but not exorcist style.
Knowing what Bird knows, something killed
her, and that something must be related to
the polaroids.
Bird tells her friends her theory, how a shadowy
figure was killing each person in the picture,
before moving to the next person in the next
picture.
Naturally, nobody believes her.
* Then, well, let’s just say it is quite
unmistakable that a supernatural entity is
after them, and Bird’s theory is 100% correct.
They try to destroy the picture by lighting
it on fire.
The problem is that the polaroid has some
voodoo shit going on, and as the picture burns
up, everybody in the picture starts bursting
into flames.
Bird stamps out the burning picture, saving
everyone.
Then, like some harry potter shit, the picture
magically repairs itself.
* Okay so the first order of business is to
ensure that the polaroids are secure.
If you drop it and somewhere down the road
it gets damaged or destroyed, well, whoever’s
in that picture will get damaged and destroyed
as well.
Interestingly, the picture only repaired itself
once the fire was put out.
But, if they didn’t stamp the fire out,
the whole picture could be destroyed.
* Secondly and obviously, no more pictures.
* We definitely know something is out to kill
us, so what else could help us stop this thing.
* Both Tyler and Avery were killed when they
were in dark, isolated areas.
It’s best to stay together, and stay in
well-lit public areas from now on.
This will be a challenge, as the lighting
is fucking horrible in this town.
* It has supernatural abilities, so we can’t
assume that any modern weapons or barriers
could stop it.
* At this point we really don’t have enough
information to stop this threat, only some
ways to not be immediately killed by it.
We could destroy the camera, but again, we
don’t know if it will stop the monster.
We could be damning everyone who already had
their picture taken.
* There is enough evidence of a supernatural
force haunting the camera and causing the
deaths of people whose picture is taken.
We could easily go to the authorities with
all the evidence at this point, which would
launch a massive investigation of the situation,
camera, history, people involved, and massive
amounts of security for everyone whose picture
was taken.
I mean, all you’d need to do is light the
picture on fire again and watch your arm magically
burst into flames.
That’s an extreme example but you get my
point.
Getting as many big brains looking at this
situation as possible is your best bet at
figuring out what this weakness is.
You could voluntarily take a picture of yourself,
causing you to be the most immediate target,
then with the might of the national guard
and FBI, set up a trap to test what weapons
work.
Better yet, the camera seemed to scare animals.
You could take a picture of an animal or find
a terminally ill person who would volunteer
to be the bait.
* Let’s continue as if we decided to not
involve the world.
We’d probably want to find out as much as
we can about the previous owners of the camera,
or what circumstances led to this.
A camera doesn’t just become haunted and
obtain supernatural powers for no reason,
there has to be some significant, horrific
event that occurred.
We’d also want to start finding any information
on the internet about haunted objects.
Why do they become haunted, how to stop a
haunted object.
* It’s a good thing Bird and crew are thinking
what I'm thinking, except that they split
up and all went to dark, isolated areas.
Bird and Connor go back to the antique shop
to grab the camera bag.
Maybe there is something else the camera came
with that could help.
Bird, thinking she’s safe since she hasn’t
had her picture taken, goes into the store.
She grabs the bag, but the thing is there
stalking her.
She sprints out of there, and when she gets
back to the car, Connor points out that Bird
is actually in the picture too, as a reflection
in it.
AKA, she’s fucked too.
* Well, it’s clearly a real monster, not
just a final destination force of nature.
We also can confirm that it’s not a person
stalking them, this thing has a demented claw
hand.
Also, there always seems to be some form of
electrical disturbance that occurs before
you get attacked.
* Jesus, even the hospital is dark as fuck.
And of course this dude is going to go into
the darkest most isolated room in the dark
hospital, by himself, while leaving Mina alone
in her hospital room.
Bro.
This thing is killing people when they are
at their most isolated, vulnerable position.
You’re making yourself an easy target here.
Devin eventually returns to his room to get
jumpscared by his dead girlfriend falling
from the rafters with a cord around her neck.
The police chalk it up to suicide.
Excellent work boys, lets pack it up and go
home.
* Mina’s death could have been avoided if
they stuck to well-lit, public areas and stayed
together.
Yah she had bad burns on her arm, but there
is a much bigger problem, ya know, a killer
ghost stalking them.
Normal hospitals would typically be fine,
but in this town it’s about as safe as a
crackhouse.
In the camera bag they find a police tag marking
this camera as evidence of a homicide crime
scene.
They go to the library to get more info on
this crime from old newspapers.
Apparently that’s something libraries used
to store, didn’t know that.
They find out that an old photography teacher
abducted, tortured, and murdered three kids,
while taking pictures of them.
His name matched the initials on the camera.
He was killed before taken into custody.
The remaining three friends meet up at a diner,
and Bird drops some important photography
knowledge on them.
When you develop photos, heat and light can
mess up the images.
The monster might only develop and is able
to physically appear in the world where it
is dark.
* Considering all of the encounters with the
entity so far, they’ve all been cold and
dark places, this seems accurate.
At least it’s the best defense they’ve
come up with so far.
Right now, they need to just hang out in hot,
well lit areas until morning.
Then, stock up on oil lamps, torches, lighters,
and flashlights before heading into dark,
cold, abandoned schools to continue your investigation.
I say torches because flashlights might be
unreliable with the whole electrical disturbance
thing, and they don’t produce heat.
As long as you all have a steady supply of
torches, you can safely continue trying to
figure out how to defeat it.
Kasey also brings up the idea that the camera
could be cursed, and that it absorbed the
energy of it’s owner because the owner has
unfinished business.
Devin freaks out due to Mina's death, and
he and Connor tussle for the camera.
In the heat of the moment, Connor accidentally
snaps a photo of Devin.
They check out the pictures, and the ghost
moved from the group photo to Devin’s polaroid.
He’s next.
* This confirms that the ghost prioritizes
the most recent picture taken.
Devin continues to freak out, threatening
to use the camera against everyone else first.
Kasey, using the voodoo shit, stabs Devin’s
polaroid with a pencil, causing Devin's hand
to be stabbed in real life, and the camera
to be dropped.
Devin gets taken to the police for hitting
a police officer that was trying to intervene.
While Devin gets arrested and jailed, Bird
and Connor decide to take their story to the
cops, and they proceed to not believe anything.
But wait, where the fuck is Kasey.
God damn guys stop splitting up.
Kasey is now alone and vulnerable, but it’s
chill because Devin’s the target for now.
Unfortunately for Devin, and like we talked
about earlier.
Barriers like a jail cell don’t stop the
ghost at all.
* Devin was an idiot for freaking out and
punching a police officer.
By now they knew that a ghost was killing
them in dark, isolated, cold places.
Punching a police officer is pretty much a
straight drive to the jail cell, which is
dark, isolated, and cold.
It was pretty much a death sentence.
* As far as what he could have done to survive
in that situation.
Well, anything to get out of the cell as soon
as possible.
I’d start hurting myself and beating my
head against the wall, the police would have
to put me on 24/7 monitoring or take me out
of the cell.
The real big brain move would’ve been to
hide my lighter in my underwear
and once I was in the cell and the monster
came for me, I’d pull it out and light my
clothes on fire.
Since the monster can’t deal with heat and
light, it’d prevent my execution.
A fire would also set off the fire alarms
alerting nearby policemen and bringing the
fire department.
Hopefully that would buy me enough time.
Bird and Connor drive to Mrs. Sable’s house.
She tells them a story about how 4 kids teased
their daughter, causing her to commit suicide.
In revenge, her husband tortured and murdered
them, taking pictures of their mutilated bodies
with the polaroid camera.
During the nice chat with Ms. Sable, Connor
notices that the ghost moved from Devin’s
picture, back to the group photo.
Welp, Devin’s dead.
* Okay, so he only killed three kids, but
there were four kids.
Bird and Connor break into the school to figure
out who the 4th kid was, to get some answers.
They find Kasey, seriously, where the fuck
was she this whole time.
They find out the name of the kid who wasn’t
killed, it was the cop.
Connor, believing Ms. Sable’s sob story,
takes a picture of the cop.
Their hope is that by wrapping up the monster’s
unfinished business, they could end this thing
before they all get killed.
He gives them his side of the story.
That Mr. Sable was an abusive father, and
took inappropriate pictures of his daughter.
That they tried to help the daughter and get
her away from him, and he killed them for
it.
* Oooh.
Sorry for taking your picture then.
This is when the all out brawl happens.
The polaroid ghost shows up to the school.
They try shooting it but this thing is like
the t1000 terminator.
Like the picture, unless the thing is fully
destroyed it will just repair itself.
And it can shape its arm into a sword.
Side theory.
Bird is the leader of the resistance and John
Sable is actually a terminator sent from the
past to kill her.
Sending terminators back from the future is
too predictable at this point.
The ghost grabs the cop's picture, uses the
voodoo shit, and rips the polaroid of the
cop in half.
Splitting him in two in real life.
* If they had gotten the torches and flashlights
like I had mentioned earlier, they could have
avoided the cops death.
Once the monster shows up, light the torches
and shine the flashlights at it.
This should dissolve the monster for now,
then recover the polaroid and keep it safe.
Bird and Kasey make a run for the showers
to turn up the heat.
It stops the monster like Bird said it would.
Bird then, with her finishing move, takes
a picture of the fully formed monster, and
uses the voodoo against it.
She crumples up the picture of the monster,
turning it into a pretzel.
Then she lights it on fire.
And since the picture only repairs itself
once the damage is stopped, letting the entire
picture burn up into ashes causes the ghost
to be completely incinerated, stopping it
for good.
We can see that the ghost is gone from all
the other polaroids too.
* I thought the monster was going to have
to kill itself, since it kills whoever had
their picture taken.
But nope, you have to take its picture and
voodoo it.
I think Bird got pretty lucky here, this strategy
could easily have not worked.
It definitely would be on the list of things
to try once we could ensure our safety with
torches and lights, but not something I’d
bank on with my life.
* After incinerating the ghost.
I would go visit a maximum security prison
and take a picture of all the inmates.
Or someone that deserves death.
Then, set an alert for any mentions of their
death.
Just in case it didn’t kill the monster,
we’d be able to get a little forewarning.
Who would you take a picture of, let me know
in the comments.
To recap, I think we could have saved some
lives here.
While the first girl, Tyler, and Avery were
toast, the rest could have been saved if they
made some better decisions.
Even though it wasn’t 100% clear it would
work, staying in well-lit public areas, and
staying together is an incredibly obvious,
reasonable, and effective strategy.
You could argue for and against taking the
camera to the authorities.
On one hand, they could help you figure out
what’s going on, and give you the resources
to fight the monster.
There would also be a lot of interesting technology
that could come from it.
On the other hand, the CIA would probably
have gained a super-weapon for their assassination
program.
I can see them mounting the polaroid camera
to a predator drone, taking pictures of people
and letting the ghost kill them silently and
for free.
What do you think?
How would you beat the polaroid ghost?
Let me know in the comments.
If you enjoy these how to beat videos, consider
subscribing.
If you have a movie or monster you’d like
me to talk about beating, let me know.
Thanks for watching, later.
And remember, don’t take pictures of yourself
with old polaroid cameras.